hi I'm Cathy from BBC kid food and I'm
going to show you how to make chocolate
truffles
so I finely chopped my chocolate and put
it in a bowl and I've got some cream and
butter in a saucepan which I'm just
gonna bring into a gentle simmer until
the butters melted so as soon as the
butters melted you want to take the
mixture off the heat if it's too hot
when you pour it onto the chocolate it
could cause the mixture to slit so this
looks great I'm just going to pour that
all over the top of the chocolates so
this is called a ganache so now the hot
cream and butter will melt the chocolate
so we just need to stir it all together
and at this point you can add some
flavorings if you want so if you want to
add some alcohol or some orange less
that would be really nice okay so our
chocolate ganache has been in the fridge
for a couple of hours and it's firmed up
if it gets too firm you can just leave
it at room temperature for half an hour
or so until it softens enough to roll it
so I'm going to oil my hands a little
bit before I start rolling the chocolate
and this will just stop chocolate from
sticking to you now using a tea spoon
just take a small amount of the ganache
and roll it into a ball
now you can drop it into whatever
toppings you like I'm using some chopped
hazelnuts and some crushed amaretti
biscuits here and just roll it around
until it's completely covered
you could also roll them in some cocoa
powder if you want to keep them nut free
so they just need to go in the fridge
for a couple of hours to firm up and
they'll keep in there for up to three
days it's perfectly giving as a gift so
there you go that's how you make BBC
good foods chocolate truffles